Hello everyone and welcome to the documentation example for the clustering of spark section of this
course and this lecture will walk through the documentation example.
Show me how to actually implement k means clustering with Sparke.
It's actually quite easy so we'll just walk through the code we will actually live.
Code anything out.
And then after that we'll jump to the official documentation web page so I can show you just a couple
more features of Kamins algorithm.
Now let's jump to the Adam text editor and walk through this example script.
All right here are Adam text editor I've opened up the Kamins underscore example that's called a script
file.
And you can find that under the clustering folder under the machine learning sections folder.
Let's just walk through it's actually a pretty simple script.
You started sparks session as we've done before.
And here there are lines 5 and 6.
We set the following code to set the error reporting and then we have a spark session just as we've
done in the past and then we import a clustering algorithm.
In this case we're going to import from that Apache that sparked the Mehldau clustering the dot k means
algorithm.
Then you load in your data and as long as your data is in a different form it should be OK.
But remember that in this case we're using an unsupervised learning algorithm which basically means
we don't expect to have any labels in our data.
In this case we're saying sample underscore Camy is report dated the text and that's the lib SVM file
format.
But in this case it's basically just a bunch of features which makes sense because it's unsupervised
learning.
We don't have those labels.
Then we want to train a Kamins model so we will say vowel k means is equal to new K means object.
You'll set the K value.
That's probably the most important parameter here.
Reviewed the theory lecture we just discussed.
But basically you want to use your domain knowledge to set inappropriate k value the amount of clusters
you expect and that is an optional argument.
You can actually set a seed value in that set C value.
It's just the seed on where to randomly initiate those centroid.
Remember as I mentioned the theory lecture the centroid are randomly initiated.
So if you want to try to get very repeatable results across multiple data sets to compare algorithms
or settings etc. You may want to set a seed there.
Then you say Vau model and actually train or fit your data.
So we say k means that fits the data set and note that I'm not doing any sort of train to split here
because that doesn't really make sense for an unsupervised learning algorithm.
There would be no labels to compare predictions often since we're just clustering the actual data points
we have and then we can actually evaluate these clusters by computing the within set sum of squared
errors and remember that the standard Kamins algorithm aims at minimizing the sum of squares of the
distance between the points of each of those sets.
This is actually the objective of this algorithm.
So once you've computed and trained the K means you can evaluate the result by using this within set
some of squared errors which is essentially something like the sum of the distances of each observation
and each k partition.
And then there's the little convenience feature here.
If you actually want to get those centers you can say model dot cluster centers and then dot for each
passen prints Ellen.
And basically what this is doing is the method of a quick hand for loop.
So you're saying for each cluster center just print them all out.
OK let's run this and see what happens when you open up a new terminal here.
Make sure I'm under the clustering folder and then say Sparke bash shell and or write my Sparke shell
is loaded.
So we will say colon load and then this case Kamins underscore example does Skala enter.
Let's run it.
So we've run the model right now we're training it on that data set.
We can see those stages showing up all right so that finished running.
Now let me expand this so we can actually see the results we got.
So here we see the actual model we train.
We have a Kamins model.
We can see that within some squared error here.
This double so that some squirters 0.1 1 9 9 or 0.1 2.
And then we have the cluster center.
So this is the actual coordinates of the cluster centers and we're dealing with three dimensional data.
So we have three coordinates.
You need a coordinate for each feature.
So for each mention you're going to have an actual coordinate of that Kamins cluster.
In this case it's actually kind of easy to visualize because there's only three mentions you can kind
of figure in your mind where these cluster centers are so x y and z axes as you get to higher that mentions
going to be harder to visualize that within your mind.
OK so we can see that these cluster centers are pretty well separated and we have a reasonable set of
some squares given the actual values of the data set to see the values here.
This is the live SVM format so it's a little strange to read but you can see here that we have this
one two and three.
These are all around nine point zero nine point one 9.2 along each three axes.
And then we have these set of three points 0 1 and 2 which are zero point zero 0.1 0.2.
So we can see here the cluster centers make a lot of sense in their fitting well now that we've explored
this documentation example.
Let's quickly jump to our browser and explore the actual machine learning clustering documentation going
to jump to my browser now.
All right here we are at the machine learning library or M-L guide.
We visit this page many times before but I want you to do is click here on clustering and this page
will describe the clustering algorithms in Madlib such as canings LDK a version of Kamins called bisecting
Kamins and Gaussian a mixture model Kamins.
By far the most commonly is clustering algorithms that we show here.
And if you look at what I want you to notice is the input column.
So k means expects your columns to be inputted as just features before for classification of regression.
We had that label column and then the features column which was an array of features but for unsupervised
learning.
You don't have that label column so it really just expects a singular column of features as an array.
So keep that in mind as you use Kamins of Scotland Spart And if you scroll them you can see the example
that we essentially just walk through.
It's a very simple example.
Import k means load the data set.
Train that Kamins model and evaluate it using compute cost on that same data set and computing that
within set sum of squared errors.
And if you want more information on this you can actually just click here to the Scala API docs and
it will take you to this Kamins page where you can explore more parameters to do.
But really k means is pretty simple as far as implementing it.
If you scroll all the way down if you're a really advanced data scientist or maybe you are doing your
Ph.D. and you're playing around with Scullin SPARC there some expert only parameters that you can initiate.
But really if you don't have this experience these are really only for advanced expert only parameter
keys that the algorithm can't take.
So if you're familiar with that the options available here for you but really only experts should be
using those parameters.
All right.
That's really all there is to discuss here.
K means coming up next is going to be an overview of your Kamins project.
Thanks everyone and I'll see at the next lecture.